# SURF 2023 - Formal Compositional Design of an Automobile System Using Pacti and Contracts

Utilized contract-based design (defined as an approach to systems engineering where the design process is seen as a successive assembly of components and a component is represented in terms of assumptions about its environment and guarantees about its behavior) and an open-source Python package called Pacti to develop a formal compositional system design for an autonomous electric vehicle. Worked with a small group of undergraduate students, as well as a postdoc co-mentor, Dr. Inigo Incer. Developed various contracts to represent the components of the system, and used them to identify estimates of the capabilities of the vehicle in a variety of real-world scenarios.

## Paper Abstract

An important aspect of systems engineering is identifying the specifications of the various components that are needed to facilitate the design, integration, and management of a complex system. Contract-based design is a recently developed methodology that complements other system design approaches for effectively managing high-complexity systems, using assume-guarantee specifications, expressed as linear inequalities, to model the components of the system. Pacti is a recently developed open-source Python package for carrying out compositional system analysis and design. We explore the ability of Pacti to create a system model for an electric automobile. We have developed various contracts to represent the components of the system, and have used them to identify estimates of the capabilities of the vehicle in a variety of real-world scenarios. Multiple different viewpoints can be analyzed, including the efficiency of the automobile in converting energy to distance traveled and the effect of components’ cost with varying performance on efficiency.  These viewpoints can be useful in analyzing the model from both a business and engineering perspective. Our utilization of Pacti to apply contract-based design to an electric automobile defines the potential for applying Pacti and contract-based design methods to model-based systems engineering of other complex electromechanical systems.
